
  NEWS
  ====

  This file gives a brief overview of the major changes between each OpenSSL
  release. For more details please read the CHANGES file.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.7c and OpenSSL 0.9.7d:

      o Security: Fix Kerberos ciphersuite SSL/TLS handshaking bug
      o Security: Fix null-pointer assignment in do_change_cipher_spec()
      o Allow multiple active certificates with same subject in CA index
      o Multiple X590 verification fixes
      o Speed up HMAC and other operations

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.7b and OpenSSL 0.9.7c:

      o Security: fix various ASN1 parsing bugs.
      o New -ignore_err option to OCSP utility.
      o Various interop and bug fixes in S/MIME code.
      o SSL/TLS protocol fix for unrequested client certificates.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.7a and OpenSSL 0.9.7b:

      o Security: counter the Klima-Pokorny-Rosa extension of
        Bleichbacher's attack 
      o Security: make RSA blinding default.
      o Configuration: Irix fixes, AIX fixes, better mingw support.
      o Support for new platforms: linux-ia64-ecc.
      o Build: shared library support fixes.
      o ASN.1: treat domainComponent correctly.
      o Documentation: fixes and additions.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.7 and OpenSSL 0.9.7a:

      o Security: Important security related bugfixes.
      o Enhanced compatibility with MIT Kerberos.
      o Can be built without the ENGINE framework.
      o IA32 assembler enhancements.
      o Support for new platforms: FreeBSD/IA64 and FreeBSD/Sparc64.
      o Configuration: the no-err option now works properly.
      o SSL/TLS: now handles manual certificate chain building.
      o SSL/TLS: certain session ID malfunctions corrected.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.6 and OpenSSL 0.9.7:

      o New library section OCSP.
      o Complete rewrite of ASN1 code.
      o CRL checking in verify code and openssl utility.
      o Extension copying in 'ca' utility.
      o Flexible display options in 'ca' utility.
      o Provisional support for international characters with UTF8.
      o Support for external crypto devices ('engine') is no longer
        a separate distribution.
      o New elliptic curve library section.
      o New AES (Rijndael) library section.
      o Support for new platforms: Windows CE, Tandem OSS, A/UX, AIX 64-bit,
        Linux x86_64, Linux 64-bit on Sparc v9
      o Extended support for some platforms: VxWorks
      o Enhanced support for shared libraries.
      o Now only builds PIC code when shared library support is requested.
      o Support for pkg-config.
      o Lots of new manuals.
      o Makes symbolic links to or copies of manuals to cover all described
        functions.
      o Change DES API to clean up the namespace (some applications link also
        against libdes providing similar functions having the same name).
        Provide macros for backward compatibility (will be removed in the
        future).
      o Unify handling of cryptographic algorithms (software and engine)
        to be available via EVP routines for asymmetric and symmetric ciphers.
      o NCONF: new configuration handling routines.
      o Change API to use more 'const' modifiers to improve error checking
        and help optimizers.
      o Finally remove references to RSAref.
      o Reworked parts of the BIGNUM code.
      o Support for new engines: Broadcom ubsec, Accelerated Encryption
        Processing, IBM 4758.
      o A few new engines added in the demos area.
      o Extended and corrected OID (object identifier) table.
      o PRNG: query at more locations for a random device, automatic query for
        EGD style random sources at several locations.
      o SSL/TLS: allow optional cipher choice according to server's preference.
      o SSL/TLS: allow server to explicitly set new session ids.
      o SSL/TLS: support Kerberos cipher suites (RFC2712).
	Only supports MIT Kerberos for now.
      o SSL/TLS: allow more precise control of renegotiations and sessions.
      o SSL/TLS: add callback to retrieve SSL/TLS messages.
      o SSL/TLS: support AES cipher suites (RFC3268).

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.6j and OpenSSL 0.9.6k:

      o Security: fix various ASN1 parsing bugs.
      o SSL/TLS protocol fix for unrequested client certificates.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.6i and OpenSSL 0.9.6j:

      o Security: counter the Klima-Pokorny-Rosa extension of
        Bleichbacher's attack 
      o Security: make RSA blinding default.
      o Build: shared library support fixes.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.6h and OpenSSL 0.9.6i:

      o Important security related bugfixes.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.6g and OpenSSL 0.9.6h:

      o New configuration targets for Tandem OSS and A/UX.
      o New OIDs for Microsoft attributes.
      o Better handling of SSL session caching.
      o Better comparison of distinguished names.
      o Better handling of shared libraries in a mixed GNU/non-GNU environment.
      o Support assembler code with Borland C.
      o Fixes for length problems.
      o Fixes for uninitialised variables.
      o Fixes for memory leaks, some unusual crashes and some race conditions.
      o Fixes for smaller building problems.
      o Updates of manuals, FAQ and other instructive documents.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.6f and OpenSSL 0.9.6g:

      o Important building fixes on Unix.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.6e and OpenSSL 0.9.6f:

      o Various important bugfixes.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.6d and OpenSSL 0.9.6e:

      o Important security related bugfixes.
      o Various SSL/TLS library bugfixes.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.6c and OpenSSL 0.9.6d:

      o Various SSL/TLS library bugfixes.
      o Fix DH parameter generation for 'non-standard' generators.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.6b and OpenSSL 0.9.6c:

      o Various SSL/TLS library bugfixes.
      o BIGNUM library fixes.
      o RSA OAEP and random number generation fixes.
      o Object identifiers corrected and added.
      o Add assembler BN routines for IA64.
      o Add support for OS/390 Unix, UnixWare with gcc, OpenUNIX 8,
        MIPS Linux; shared library support for Irix, HP-UX.
      o Add crypto accelerator support for AEP, Baltimore SureWare,
        Broadcom and Cryptographic Appliance's keyserver
        [in 0.9.6c-engine release].

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.6a and OpenSSL 0.9.6b:

      o Security fix: PRNG improvements.
      o Security fix: RSA OAEP check.
      o Security fix: Reinsert and fix countermeasure to Bleichbacher's
        attack.
      o MIPS bug fix in BIGNUM.
      o Bug fix in "openssl enc".
      o Bug fix in X.509 printing routine.
      o Bug fix in DSA verification routine and DSA S/MIME verification.
      o Bug fix to make PRNG thread-safe.
      o Bug fix in RAND_file_name().
      o Bug fix in compatibility mode trust settings.
      o Bug fix in blowfish EVP.
      o Increase default size for BIO buffering filter.
      o Compatibility fixes in some scripts.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.6 and OpenSSL 0.9.6a:

      o Security fix: change behavior of OpenSSL to avoid using
        environment variables when running as root.
      o Security fix: check the result of RSA-CRT to reduce the
        possibility of deducing the private key from an incorrectly
        calculated signature.
      o Security fix: prevent Bleichenbacher's DSA attack.
      o Security fix: Zero the premaster secret after deriving the
        master secret in DH ciphersuites.
      o Reimplement SSL_peek(), which had various problems.
      o Compatibility fix: the function des_encrypt() renamed to
        des_encrypt1() to avoid clashes with some Unixen libc.
      o Bug fixes for Win32, HP/UX and Irix.
      o Bug fixes in BIGNUM, SSL, PKCS#7, PKCS#12, X.509, CONF and
        memory checking routines.
      o Bug fixes for RSA operations in threaded environments.
      o Bug fixes in misc. openssl applications.
      o Remove a few potential memory leaks.
      o Add tighter checks of BIGNUM routines.
      o Shared library support has been reworked for generality.
      o More documentation.
      o New function BN_rand_range().
      o Add "-rand" option to openssl s_client and s_server.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.5a and OpenSSL 0.9.6:

      o Some documentation for BIO and SSL libraries.
      o Enhanced chain verification using key identifiers.
      o New sign and verify options to 'dgst' application.
      o Support for DER and PEM encoded messages in 'smime' application.
      o New 'rsautl' application, low level RSA utility.
      o MD4 now included.
      o Bugfix for SSL rollback padding check.
      o Support for external crypto devices [1].
      o Enhanced EVP interface.

    [1] The support for external crypto devices is currently a separate
        distribution.  See the file README.ENGINE.

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.5 and OpenSSL 0.9.5a:

      o Bug fixes for Win32, SuSE Linux, NeXTSTEP and FreeBSD 2.2.8 
      o Shared library support for HPUX and Solaris-gcc
      o Support of Linux/IA64
      o Assembler support for Mingw32
      o New 'rand' application
      o New way to check for existence of algorithms from scripts

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.4 and OpenSSL 0.9.5:

      o S/MIME support in new 'smime' command
      o Documentation for the OpenSSL command line application
      o Automation of 'req' application
      o Fixes to make s_client, s_server work under Windows
      o Support for multiple fieldnames in SPKACs
      o New SPKAC command line utilty and associated library functions
      o Options to allow passwords to be obtained from various sources
      o New public key PEM format and options to handle it
      o Many other fixes and enhancements to command line utilities
      o Usable certificate chain verification
      o Certificate purpose checking
      o Certificate trust settings
      o Support of authority information access extension
      o Extensions in certificate requests
      o Simplified X509 name and attribute routines
      o Initial (incomplete) support for international character sets
      o New DH_METHOD, DSA_METHOD and enhanced RSA_METHOD
      o Read only memory BIOs and simplified creation function
      o TLS/SSL protocol bugfixes: Accept TLS 'client hello' in SSL 3.0
        record; allow fragmentation and interleaving of handshake and other
        data
      o TLS/SSL code now "tolerates" MS SGC
      o Work around for Netscape client certificate hang bug
      o RSA_NULL option that removes RSA patent code but keeps other
        RSA functionality
      o Memory leak detection now allows applications to add extra information
        via a per-thread stack
      o PRNG robustness improved
      o EGD support
      o BIGNUM library bug fixes
      o Faster DSA parameter generation
      o Enhanced support for Alpha Linux
      o Experimental MacOS support

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.3 and OpenSSL 0.9.4:

      o Transparent support for PKCS#8 format private keys: these are used
        by several software packages and are more secure than the standard
        form
      o PKCS#5 v2.0 implementation
      o Password callbacks have a new void * argument for application data
      o Avoid various memory leaks
      o New pipe-like BIO that allows using the SSL library when actual I/O
        must be handled by the application (BIO pair)

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.2b and OpenSSL 0.9.3:
      o Lots of enhancements and cleanups to the Configuration mechanism
      o RSA OEAP related fixes
      o Added `openssl ca -revoke' option for revoking a certificate
      o Source cleanups: const correctness, type-safe stacks and ASN.1 SETs
      o Source tree cleanups: removed lots of obsolete files
      o Thawte SXNet, certificate policies and CRL distribution points
        extension support
      o Preliminary (experimental) S/MIME support
      o Support for ASN.1 UTF8String and VisibleString
      o Full integration of PKCS#12 code
      o Sparc assembler bignum implementation, optimized hash functions
      o Option to disable selected ciphers

  Major changes between OpenSSL 0.9.1c and OpenSSL 0.9.2b:
      o Fixed a security hole related to session resumption
      o Fixed RSA encryption routines for the p < q case
      o "ALL" in cipher lists now means "everything except NULL ciphers"
      o Support for Triple-DES CBCM cipher
      o Support of Optimal Asymmetric Encryption Padding (OAEP) for RSA
      o First support for new TLSv1 ciphers
      o Added a few new BIOs (syslog BIO, reliable BIO)
      o Extended support for DSA certificate/keys.
      o Extended support for Certificate Signing Requests (CSR)
      o Initial support for X.509v3 extensions
      o Extended support for compression inside the SSL record layer
      o Overhauled Win32 builds
      o Cleanups and fixes to the Big Number (BN) library
      o Support for ASN.1 GeneralizedTime
      o Splitted ASN.1 SETs from SEQUENCEs
      o ASN1 and PEM support for Netscape Certificate Sequences
      o Overhauled Perl interface
      o Lots of source tree cleanups.
      o Lots of memory leak fixes.
      o Lots of bug fixes.

  Major changes between SSLeay 0.9.0b and OpenSSL 0.9.1c:
      o Integration of the popular NO_RSA/NO_DSA patches
      o Initial support for compression inside the SSL record layer
      o Added BIO proxy and filtering functionality
      o Extended Big Number (BN) library
      o Added RIPE MD160 message digest
      o Addeed support for RC2/64bit cipher
      o Extended ASN.1 parser routines
      o Adjustations of the source tree for CVS
      o Support for various new platforms

